<p>Spring Boot Student Database Administration Project</p>
<p>The Spring Boot student database administration project is a web-based application designed to help manage student data in an educational institution.<br />The application is built using the Spring Boot framework, which provides a robust and scalable platform for developing enterprise-grade applications.</p>
<p>The front-end of the application is built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap. It provides a clean and intuitive user interface for administrators<br />and teachers to interact with the application's features.</p>
<p>Features <br />&bull; Add, edit, or delete students, teachers, and courses.<br />&bull; Search student by their id or with their first name and last name.<br />&bull; View students by grade and find the number of girls, boys, and total count.<br />&bull; View or update course assigned to a student.<br />&bull; Add exam score for each course and generate perfomance report.<br />&bull; Assign students to enhancement or tution according to theier perfomance.<br />&bull; Assign teachers to courses. <br />&bull; Teacher and course are in many to many relationship.<br />&bull; One teacher can be assigned to more than one course.<br />&bull; One course can be taken by more than one teachers.<br />&bull; Prevent deleting a teacher if the teacher is assigned to a different course.<br />&bull; Prevent deleting a course if the same course is assigned to a different teacher.<br />&bull; Prevent adding same course or teacher or student if already exist in database</p>
<p>Spring Security<br />The Spring Boot student database administration project uses Spring Security to provide secure authentication and authorization for two types of users: <br />admin and teacher.</p>
<p>Roles and Permissions<br />1)Admin users can perform all CRUD operations on students, teachers, and courses, as well as create and delete teacher-course assignments. Username: anjana@gmail.com Password:password<br />2)Teacher users can view all students and update their scores, as well as view student performance reports. Based on student performance, teachers can recommend<br />students for specialized learning or assign them to tuition.<br/> Username: ashley@gmail.com Password:password</p>
<p>Technologies and Tools incorporated in implementaion:<br />Designed and created wireframe for the school administration webpages.<br />Created mock up web pages using HTML 5,Bootstrap CSS,JavaScript.<br />Front end validation using html and bootstrap.<br />Designed the database using an ER diagram.<br />Created Maven project using spring initializer.<br />Implementd CRUD operations through Spring Data JPA.<br />Wrote AssertJ test cases for repositories and services methods.<br />Persisted the data in the MySQL database.<br />Used GitHub as the code repository.<br />Used Lombok library for creating POJO classes and entities.<br />Used Thymeleaf for spring web mvc integration.<br />Used spring boot validation which ensured integrity and security of data.<br />Used Spring security for login authentication/authorization.<br />Used Slf4j for application logging.<br />Used Sonarlint for maintaining code quality.<br />Two Layers of Validation: Front end validation using html and bootstrap, used Spring Validation at back end.<br />By using two layers of validation, the application ensurse the integrity and security of the data.</p>
<p>Conclusion<br />In conclusion, the Spring Boot student database administration project is a web-based application designed to help educational institutions manage <br />student data effectively. The project leverages the Spring Boot framework to provide a robust and scalable platform for developing enterprise-grade applications. <br />It offers features such as adding, editing, or deleting students, teachers, and courses, searching for students by ID or name, viewing students by grade,<br />assigning courses to students, and generating performance reports.</p>
<p>The project also uses Spring Security for secure authentication and authorization, allowing two types of users, admin and teacher, <br />with different roles and permissions. The application's front-end is built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap, <br />providing a clean and intuitive user interface for administrators and teachers to interact with the features. <br />The implementation of the project incorporates several technologies and tools, including Spring Data JPA, AssertJ, Maven, Lombok, Thymeleaf, and Sonarlint.</p>
<p>Moreover, the project implements two layers of validation to ensure the integrity and security of the data,<br />making it more reliable and user-friendly. Overall, the Spring Boot student database administration project is a <br />robust and efficient solution that can help educational institutions streamline their operations and manage student data effectively.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
